# Cs300_DSA
# What was the problem you were solving in the projects for this course?
- The problem that was provided for me to find a solution to was that the academic advisors in the computer science department at ABCU needed a program that would read in classes including their relevant information and prerequisite courses and be able to sort them alphanumerically, search for specific courses by course number while also handeling errors. 
# How did you approach the problem? Consider why data structures are important to understand.
- The first step I took to approaching this problem is deconstructing the problem and seeing if I had handeled each problem individually before. If I had not seen the problem previously I would then start to brainstorm how I would like the program to work, what a program like this would look like, and if there are any edge cases that need to be dealt with during the programs execution. Another question that I had to initially ask myself is what data structure may be used efficiently to decrease the run time associated with the different functionalities and how each one could be implemented to create the program (difficulty). Data stuctures are important to understand because you may have certain cases in which it might be best to use a certain data stucture over another like if you know the key to a value it may be best to use a hash table over a linked list in which instead of iterating through a list you can directly call the value by its key decreasing the run time of the program. Another aspect you need to consider is the memory usage, you do not want to waste an unnecessary amount of memory to complete a task if their are alternatives you can implement to decrease the memory usage especially when you are working along certain guidelines.
# How did you overcome any roadblocks you encountered while going through the activities or project?
- While completing this project especially in the begining I ran into many road blocks but with the help of the pseudo code that I had developed to try and visualize certain functionalities of the program I was able to in the end complete the functionality and complete the project. What also helped me was lookin back at past class work in which I dealt wih implementing vectors in c++.
# How has your work on this project expanded your approach to designing software and developing programs?
- This project and course in general really broadened my eyes and made data structures and algorithms digestable for me. Breaking them up into pieces, understanding how each oen worked and the certain use cases for each one allowed me to build a project from the ground up because it was all problems that I had dealt with previously and understood.
# How has your work on this project evolved the way you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable?
- My work in this project really helped me to understand why certain data structures may be used to deal with certain program problems and taught me how to utilize memory efficiently to not cause any overuse or leakage in my programs.
